Clothes
Clothing is something we all should wear in order to fit in to society. The act of wearing clothing is a choice in some indigenous societies while in a more modern culture you could find yourself in trouble with the police if you choose not to wear clothes. Clothes are easily accessible and can be bought in most high street shops. Supermarkets are also beginning to sell clothes. Clothes are for keeping people warm or serving as protection from the strong burning sun. Certain items of clothing can be expensive, especially if it is made by a well-known brand or is a particular design. While clothing is affordable for most people, the price usually depends on the quality of the material used to make the item and its brand name. In most countries clothing is taxed, while food is not. This is probably because clothing can be considered as a luxury item, especially if it is of very good quality.
The type of clothing that is worn usually depends on the occasion. People that attend a wedding usually wear formal clothes. Men often wear suits and women wear dresses. Formal and smart clothing is often worn in times of celebration. People often wear different clothing at work. Some jobs require people to wear a special uniform which should be worn by all employees. A pilot, doctor or air hostess may be required to wear a uniform so that all the staff can be easily recognized. Other jobs are less strict and may allow people to wear casual clothes. Construction workers are usually asked to wear protective clothing, especially when the site is considered highly dangerous. 
People often choose to wear comfortable clothing inside their own home. This choice of clothing may be very different to the clothing they would normally wear outside. Some people even stay in their bedclothes all day on the weekend when they plan to relax and not go anywhere. People often wear clothing which matches their current state of health or their age. Pregnant women are likely to wear baggy clothes, while youths often wear tighter clothing to show their figure. Younger females often wear high heeled shoes while elderly people tend to wear more comfortable shoes which will allow them to walk with ease. 