Types of Hotel
There are many types of hotel, big and small. Big hotels, which are part of a 'group', offer guests a standard that does not vary from one location to another. Hotels can be awarded 'Stars' if their facilities match the Tourist Boards specifications. The more stars, the higher the standards. There is also a 'Red Star' accolade awarded for excellent cuisine.
People expect rooms with ensuite facilities. There is also a choice of single, double or family rooms to book. Hotels in large busy cities often have triple glazed windows to help reduce the noise of passing traffic.
When you stay in a hotel, the facilities are reflected in the price of the accommodation. Many establishments have swimming pools, squash courts, health clubs, gymnasiums and indoor play areas for young family members. Some of these activities can be used by non-residents, providing they pay the subscription fee. There are hotels with golf courses in their grounds. Some have lakes that are offered to guests who wish to fish or take out a boat to fill their leisure time.
A good hotel with pleasant helpful staff contributes to making a holiday enjoyable and encourages return visits. Christmas cards are sent to regular guests from the hotel management. A varied choice of fresh food beautifully presented in a dining area with lovely views, all add to the holiday experience.
If the guests do not wish to dine in the restaurant, room service is an alternative. A menu is supplied in the room from which guests can order. When the food is ready, a member of staff will bring it to the room. If the guests have to leave early in the morning before the dining room is serving breakfast, an order can be placed the night before leaving and breakfast will be delivered to the room at the desired time. There is always a list of the restaurant opening times in the room.
Most hotels ask their guests to vacate their rooms by 10 o'clock on the day of their departure. This is so the staff have enough time to clean the room, make up the bed and generally tidy the area, before the next occupants arrive. New visitors to a hotel do not usually have access to their room until after mid-day.