How to Choose the Right University
Choosing which university fits your interests and academic background is an important decision that will greatly influence the success of your university study. In the UK alone, there are hundreds of choices and therefore you need to be strategic in making a shortlist of universities and narrowing down your choices into second and first choice. This involves weighing some factors such as your motivation and aspiration, your personality, your location, and your budget.
People attend university for different reasons, so ask yourself what you want from your target university and what you want to do after you graduate. Many people attend top universities because of the prestige without considering their choice of future career. If you have interest in a particular career, you should find universities with a better reputation for your career choice than others. With a degree from a university that is most respected in the profession you want to enter, it will be easy for you to get your dream job and you will be able to climb the career ladder fast.
Your personality types also play an important role in your success as a university student. A scholarly type student usually has self-motivation to work hard in order to ace exams and achieve high grades. This type of person will find comfort in a highly academic environment offered by top world universities such as Oxford or Cambridge. On the contrary, if you are not a type of person who can study for hours and getting top grades is not your main priority, you better go to a university with a more laid-back academic environment so that you will not be stressful all the time and can enjoy your life at university.
Coming home could be a good escape during your hard time at university, so think about the distance between your home and the target university. If you get homesick easily, you should not consider choosing a university outside your hometown or which takes more than a day to travel by land or water. However, if distance is not a problem for you, you might want to consider studying abroad, especially at a university whose reputation is better than the universities in your home country. 
Last but not least, calculate your financial ability, which should cover tuition fees and cost of living. Both vary across the country and different universities, so do your homework by doing some research in order to find out which one fits your bills. If you cannot afford to go to the university of your choice, you can search for financial aid in the forms of student loans, grant, or scholarship. Do remember that if you decide to obtain a loan, you have to pay for it after you finish your study.