Advantages of Living in a Big City
Do you live in a big city? It is said that living in big cities is expensive because of the high living cost. There are also pollution and traffic problems that make living in big cities unpleasant. However, many people enjoy living in big cities because they offer convenience and countless options for entertainment.
Many big cities already have good public transportation systems, which make it easy for the citizens to go anywhere around the city. This also reduces and helps overcome the problem of traffic jams that often occur at peak times. With the convenience of public transportation, the citizens do not have to drive everywhere and can save money as they do not have to pay for parking charges.
Staying healthy is everybody’s concern and in big cities you can find the best possible medical care for any diseases, especially the severe ones. Moreover, compared to rural areas, access to medical treatment is easier because there are always clinics or medical centers that open 24 hours in many parts of the city so you can get medical help anytime, as soon as you need it. Reaching hospitals is also easier as public transport is usually available 24 hours a day.
There is a saying that big cities never sleep. This is true for some cities in which the nightlife begins just when people in other cities are ready to go to bed. Big cities like New York, Madrid, London and Paris have vibrant nightlife. People can still find entertainment, dine out or go shopping into the early hours. 
City dwellers are usually more diverse and there are many communities that hold social events or parties, which provide interesting opportunities for social interactions and social networking. The social interactions allow you to learn about other cultures and share interests with people from different backgrounds, which makes you more open minded and able to understand individuals. On the other hand, the social networking helps you to broaden not only personal but also professional relationships.
All in all, living in big cities is more convenient because of the complete facilities provided. The advanced transportation system enables the citizens to access public facilities easier, cheaper and faster. Big cities also provide better education and health service. In addition, city life is more fun and exciting because there is a wide range of entertainment to enjoy and a lot of social events to attend. 