Birthday Parties
After a 9 month wait, the day a baby is born is the most traumatic and emotional time in the life of any parent. It is a life changing situation for the family. The parents now have to be focussed on the nurture of this small infant. It takes precedent over their priorities. This is a commitment that lasts for years, until the child becomes independent and can look after itself.
As each year passes and a birthday comes around it is a time to celebrate and enjoy each important milestone. The baby's first birthday will not be remembered by the infant, but for the family it is a very happy time. As children grow older and learn to socialise with other boys and girls, the planned party causes great excitement. The child can decide who to invite, where to hold the event and what sort of food to prepare.
Busy pre-school children love lots of activity. Climbing, running and jumping is a way to use up excessive amounts of energy. A party in the garden, if the weather is fine, is ideal. Alternatively a local community hall could be hired. Some parents organise a visit from a children's entertainer, magician or puppeteer.
When school age is reached, party games are enjoyed. Pass the parcel is popular with parents as the children have to sit down in a circle whilst the parcel is handed from one person to the next. When the music plays the parcel moves around from hand to hand. The person holding it when the music stops takes off one wrapping. When the last wrapping is removed the lucky winner keeps the prize.
Music at parties is very important. Games such as musical bumps, musical chairs and musical statues are firm favourites. While another quieter game is spin the plate. The children sit in a circle and are given a number. An adult spins a plate or circular tin tray and calls out a number. The plate has to be 'caught' before it falls down. If it falls over before being grabbed, a forfeit is required, which maybe reciting a poem or singing a song.
In the early teenage years, girls may only invite girls to their parties as they become self-conscious and shy in the company of boys. However as the years pass, birthday parties become an opportunity to get to know your school friends and develop deeper relationships.