Proper Beach Etiquette
Whenever you go to a public place, you need to behave so people around you will not be disturbed by your behavior. Going to the beach is no exception.  You can do anything to have fun, but still there are rules to follow.
Once you arrive at the beach, you want to find an empty space. Observe the location and try to find a spot with a minimum of 15 feet (4.6 m) from anyone who is already there. If you plan to stay until sunset, remember that the tide will come up at some point so do not be too close to the water so you do not need to move when the tide gets high. It is rude to expect others to move back for you or to get closer to them. If you cannot find a high water mark, you can check a tide chart or ask some locals.
It can be very windy at the beach so pay attention to where the wind is blowing before inserting your umbrella into the sand. Make sure the wind blows against the umbrella and insert it at an angle. This is to keep the umbrella in the sand so that it will not get blown away and hit other people.
Smoking is not prohibited outdoors, but the wind conditions can make smoke linger around people or travel for quite a distance. Unless you go to the beach outside peak times, you had better not smoke when spending time at the beach.
If you wear flip flops, do not get too close to other people’s towels while walking. This is to avoid the sand from being flipping onto their towel. What is more, when the beach is crowded, do not run on your way to the water. Sand flies when you run and it could flick everywhere.
When you want to play a game, go away from the crowds. Playing ball over peoples’ heads while they are trying to relax is incredibly disturbing. Also, people often try to take naps while sunbathing so choose games that do not make too much noise.
After all day at the beach, when you want to go home, never shake your towel too close to your neighbor and see which way the wind is blowing so that you will not blow sand into your neighbor’s face. In short, remember that people come to the beach to relax and your actions could spoil their day. So keep a distance from your neighbors, be considerate, and make less noise while playing.