Driving
Although people drive in all countries, the rules can be quite different between nations and areas. For this reason, you should always learn the laws before you decide to drive in a foreign country. If you are not careful, you can get into trouble, since the rules might be very different from what you are used to. For example, you can find some big differences in laws related to the minimum driving age, the appropriate side of the road to drive on, and mobile phone use while driving.
In the United States of America, people who live in Alaska may obtain a learner’s permit (legal permission to drive while being supervised) at the age of fourteen. This is quite different from the driving laws of Niger, where a person must be at least twenty-three years old to drive. If you are curious to know the minimum driving age in most countries, the answer is eighteen.
It may also surprise you to learn that not every country allows its citizens to drive, although most of them do. For example, women are not allowed to drive in Saudi Arabia no matter how old they are. Instead, they must have a male family member or hired male driver to travel by car.
Driving on the right or left side of the road also varies. For instance, in Great Britain, Cyprus, Australia, India, and Malaysia people drive on the left. However, in the U.S., Mexico, France, and Canada people are required to drive on the right. As a matter of fact, one country can have different driving rules for different areas. For example, people in Hong Kong drive on the left, while drivers in other parts of China use the right side of the road.
Other driving laws that are different between countries include those related to using mobile phones. In Japan, using any kind of mobile phone device is illegal, even if you do not need to hold the phone with your hands. However, in Argentina and Australia, drivers are allowed to talk on their mobile phones as long as they do not use their hands. 
You might also find it interesting to learn that some countries have very strange or unusual laws. For example, in the country of Cyprus, it is against the law to eat or drink anything while driving. Even more interesting is that in Germany, there is a famous road called the Autobahn, where certain parts have no speed limit at all!