Weather
James: Look at that sky - what beautiful colours. Red - orange - yellow… it’s going to be a nice day tomorrow.
Lucy: Do you think so?
James: Sure. Haven’t you heard the saying - Red sky at night, Shepherd’s delight. It means that if there is a nice sunset in the evening, the next day will be fine.
Lucy: I’ve heard the saying. I didn’t know it was actually true.
James: I think it is.
Lucy: Well, there are lots of old sayings about the weather.  Not many of them are true.
James: What other sayings do you know?
Lucy: Well, there’s the one that says ‘rain before seven, fine by eleven.’
James: What?
Lucy: ‘Rain before seven, fine by eleven’… If it’s raining before seven o’clock in the morning, it will clear up before eleven o’clock.
James: Is that true?
Lucy: Not here! I’ve known it to start raining at five in the morning and still be raining at five in the afternoon! And there’s another one - if a cow is lying down, it means it’s going to rain.
James: Is that one true?
Lucy: No, I think if a cow is lying down, it means that the cow is tired!
James: Oh…what’s that American one - Groundhog day?
Lucy: Groundhog day?
James: Yes, it’s in February, I think. If it’s cloudy on this day, a groundhog  will come out of its hole. It means the cold weather will soon end.  But if it is sunny, the groundhog will see its shadow, get scared and stay inside its hole.  And that means it will stay cold for another six weeks.
Lucy: That sounds silly to me!
James: I don’t think it’s true, but it makes for a fun festival.
Lucy: Of course, in Britain we have a similar one about Saint Swithin’s day.
James: St Swithin’s day? I don’t know about that one.
Lucy: St Swithin’s day is in July - the 15th I think.  They say that if it rains on this day, it will be wet for the next forty days.  And if it’s sunny, it’ll stay warm and sunny all summer.
James: I bet that’s not true!
Lucy: No, I don’t think it is, but have you noticed that some summers in Britain are wet all summer long, while others are really hot?  We never seem to get something in between.
James: My aunt says Green Christmas White Easter - White Christmas Green Easter.
Lucy: Oh, you mean, if it doesn’t snow in December it will snow in the spring?
James: Yes, and the other way round too. If it snows at Christmas, it won’t snow in the spring.  It might be true. I’ve never really checked.