Animals
Barbara, Australia
So, what is my favorite animal? Definitely cats. I love cats. I had a cat when I was a child. He was mostly black with white paws and the tip of his tails was white and he was dead cute and he lived to be seventeen years old which is quite old for a cat. I don't know. I just understand cats and I think they understand me. I love them.

Conrad, The United States
My favorite animal is definitely a dog. I can relate to dogs because I share similar characteristics such as being friendly, lovable, loyal and cute. Dogs also can do so many things to help make a person feel good. They're such giving animals and we have a German Sheperd at my parent's home in California and I really miss him now. His name is Yogi.

Lisa, Canada
What's my favorite animal? My favorite animal is a cat. If you asked me this question last year or two years ago I would say a dog, cause dogs are loyal and friendly and cute but two years ago I acquired a car and since then I have grown to find cats more intelligent than dogs, not so friendly but when they cuddle on you you love them more.

Phil, England
What's my favorite animal? My favorite animal is definitely a penguin because I think they have very much in common with humans the way they interact with each other and the way their life is very similar to human human relationships. They have one single partner for all their lifetime and they have one baby which they grow up with. They nurture and help to grow up. It's very, very similar to humans. OK, I also like monkeys because they're funny and very cute, but my favorite animal is definitely a penguin.

Adrienne, The United States
What is my favorite animal? Well, my favorite animal to live with is a cat, so for a pet I would say a cat because they take good care of themselves and they're easy to look after. You can leave them alone for long periods of time. That suits me very well, but I recently saw a movie called The March of the Penguins and I suddenly have a very big appreciation for penguins and how strong they are and how cute they are, really, so I think maybe penguins and cats.

Skip, The United States
What is my favorite animal? Well, the animal that I think is most interesting or that I try to... I don't know. I don't want to say live like but that I think about most is the wolf because I grew up in Minnesota and Minnesota in the U.S. has the only native wolf population in the U.S. and so that's usually kind of an image that I try and... you know, strong and independent, but works well in a group.