Buying a House or Rent an Apartment
There are many things to consider when choosing to buy a house or rent an apartment. For example, you should think about space, finances, long-term plans, and even responsibility for repairs and maintenance. This is a big choice for any individual or family, one which requires careful thought in order to choose what is best for you.
Your financial situation is probably the easiest and simplest thing that you should consider. Whether you plan to rent or buy, you will probably be making monthly payments. But how much money can you afford to pay each month? The general rule is that you should spend no more than one-third of your monthly income on housing. In addition, this rule is followed by many apartment companies who require potential renters to show monthly bank statements to prove that they can afford to live there.
Another important consideration is your need for space. If you are a single person, an apartment will probably be the best choice. However, if you are married with children, you might prefer to buy a house, since they are bigger and usually include a yard, which is great for kids to run and play.  
One of the most important things to think about when choosing between renting an apartment and buying a house are your long-term plans. For example, if you are not sure whether or not you plan to permanently stay in your current city or town, then you should avoid buying a home. Many times people make this mistake and find that it is difficult to resell the house when they would like to leave the area. On the other hand, if you are positive that you will live there for the rest of your life (or at least for many years), buying a house might be your best option.
In addition to the above, you will need to decide if you are able and willing to take responsibility for repairs and maintenance. If you rent an apartment, things such as mowing the yard, pest control, and repairs will be taken care of for you. However, if you buy your own home, all of this will be your responsibility. Home repairs can be very expensive, so you should ask yourself if you have enough money to make repairs in case of an emergency. Also, things like mowing the yard may be easy for a young, healthy person but difficult or impossible for an older individual.