What Fresh Graduates Should Know about Their First Jobs
For recent graduates, internships may become a stepping stone to full-time, paid employment. Before accepting an offer to work as an intern you should get some information about the company’s reputation of procuring their interns and decide accordingly. If they usually hire one intern but have tens of employees working day and night, it is better to look for other companies. The best place to have an internship position is an organization that gives you an opportunity to gain real work experience and develop your skills instead of using you as a cheap worker.
Another thing that should be considered is the size of the company. Sometimes bigger and more established organizations are better as they have a clear hierarchy and therefore it gives you a clear idea of your position and the job description and most importantly, it will be easier to get a mentor. Startups with only five employees are usually more flexible in terms of job responsibilities and therefore it makes it harder to define your position and get mentors.
After you choose a company, do a little research on the company including the people who work there. You can do a Google search and comb social media such as LinkedIn, Facebook and Twitter   to dig deep about the company’s hiring managers and what they expect from a new employee.
Social media is also very useful to keep in touch with as many people as you can and build your network. Do not hesitate to maintain any personal connection you have because those connections could be the first ones who inform you about a new job opening or any vacant positions you can apply for. 
If you aim for a dream job, do not overlook an entry-level position just because it offers mediocre salary. Entry-level employees are more likely to be given room to grow and learn from their mistakes. They will also be able to figure out the job routines and get used to them when they actually get the position they have been dreaming about.
As your first few jobs might be very demanding yet less rewarding, remember to have fun and enjoy your life. Working overtime may not always be a good idea to accelerate your career, especially if you have to be more stressed than your seniors who earn bigger salaries. Setting the time for exercise and social life will make your life more balanced and stress free.