What´s good about your hometown?
Akane / Canada
What is good about your hometown? One thing that is good about my hometown, Toronto, is that it's a very multi-cultural city. That means that there are many different people from many different countries, all over the world, so I really enjoy going out and eating different kinds of foods from different places. YOu can have Thai food, Indian food, Chinese food, French food, Italian food, Portuguese food, all kinds of food, and I really, really enjoy that part of my city.

Barbara / Australia
One good thing about my hometown? Well, my hometown is Perth, in Western Australia. Ah, the best thing about my hometown is well, it's got a lot of parks and gardens and wide open spaces. We've got a beautiful river, the great outdoors. That's the best thing. You can really enjoy fresh air and sunshine.

Mark / America
My hometown is Birmingham, Alabama in America. I guess the good thing about Birmingham is it's a very friendly place. The south has a reputation for being friendly, and it's true, when you're there, people are generally very nice to you, and pretty much anywhere you go, even complete strangers will be nice to you, and we have a unique accent in Alabama, I don't normally talk that way but it's usually interesting for other English speakers to hear.

Jeannie / America
OK, so I'm from Philadelphia and I think the best thing about my hometown is the food, as Philadelphia is famous for the Philly Cheese steak, and also for soft pretzels, usually people like to put spicy mustard on them and it's a very good treat in the summer with Italian ice.

Naomi / Australia
My hometown is a very small town called Melanie, on the Sunshine Coast. It's located on top of the, on one part of the great dividing range of Australia so it's quite highly elevated mountain village. It has beautiful views of the Sunshine Coast, all the way down to the beach, and it's got a really nice sense of community being such a small town.

Ruth / England
What's good? Well,there are many good things really. I really like the people in my hometown, and I also like the fact that if you go shopping everything is really quite cheap and I can get to town really easily from my house. They are all really good things. On the other hand, sometimes it's a little bit difficult because there's really not that much to do except for that. The cost and everything is really good.



 