How to Trace Your Family Tree Online
A family tree or genealogical tree is a diagram that shows the relationships between members of a family in several generations. Creating a family tree is a great way for children to broaden their knowledge about great grandparents and other family members who have passed away or who they have never had the chance to meet. For adults, it can be a way to learn about family history and how it has affected their present and future lives.
Tracing and creating a family tree can be difficult and complicated to do, especially if you do not have sufficient knowledge about your family history and only have a few old photos and documents. However, digital technology has made it easier for you because now you can access online databases and search engines and obtain the information you need within minutes. The key information that you need includes names (common surnames or family names), dates of significant events (birth, marriage, death, emigration) and places to locate records such as church registers.
You can start your genealogy research by building a skeleton family tree. For this purpose, you can go to various sites on the Internet. After you have done the basic family tree, it is time to dig deeper by going to more specialized websites that contain military or employment records, parish records or wills. In this phase, you need to be sure of what you are searching for. For example, if you look for the military records of your great grandfather, you should have his full name, date of birth and the forces in which he served. Here are some sites that genealogists often use to research specific information: 1) the National Archives site contains wills and naval records, 2) the Origins Network site contains apprenticeship records, military records and marriage indexes, 3) the Times Online site provides information about famous or notorious ancestors from 1785-1985 and 4) the CWGC site provides details of servicemen and women who died during the two World Wars.
Of course, not all information is available online and you should not expect to find your entire family tree in one place. You may still need to visit your local family history center and look at cemeteries, courthouses and churches for more information. You can also make contact with genealogy communities through their websites and ask for a piece of advice. You can use sites like Genuki and Cyndis List to consult on genealogy research and find valuable information, genealogical material and links to hundreds of other genealogy websites.