Wildlife Filmmakers
Richard and Sonia Muller make documentaries about wildlife, particularly
dangerous animals, like the big cats found in Africa. Film-making for
them is a way to bring the message of the importance of understanding
wildlife to international audiences, with their last film, Staying
Alive, exploring relationships between lions and other wildlife in one
African region. When Richard and Sonia were invited to help with a
special project run by a wildlife organisation that was providing
information about the falling numbers of big cats, especially lions,
they immediately agreed to take part.
Richard grew up near a wildlife park and as a child was keen on filming
what he saw. The couple were introduced at university in Cape Town, and
quickly realised how much they had in common. They were both curious
about the natural world and Sonia soon discovered a similar talent for
filmmaking. As a child in South Africa Sonia often ran off alone to
explore the wild areas surrounding her home, despite her parents’ fears.
When asked what they found hardest about their work, Sonia and Richard
have the same answer - leaving an area and finishing a project. Sonia
adds that the hours required can be hard, and things like the heat,
dust, and bugs make it very tiring. The excitement of her work comes
from not knowing what will happen, perhaps even discovering something
new for science, while Richard takes most interest in spending time with
individual animals, getting to know their character.
The pair visit schools around the world, and notice that students with
access to lots of information don’t always have as much understanding about
geography as students in countries where access is limited. “Students
without the internet constantly available actually look at maps, they want
to find out where they are and often end up with a better idea of place,”
Richard says. A major part of their work is explaining to students the
importance of a fuller understanding of various environments by studying
the climate, animals and culture of a specific location.
If you’d like a similar career, Richard suggests studying various
different areas of biology, rather than learning about the latest filmmaking technology, as an understanding of the natural world will last
forever. The couple also give general advice for those wanting to help
protect the environment. Sonia explains that it’s important to allow
yourself to concentrate. “Turning off personal electronic items gets you
closer to the natural world,” she says. “You can watch nature, instead
of listening for your mobile phone.” Most importantly they agree that if
urgent action isn’t taken, more animals might be lost. However, the fact
that more teenagers are getting involved offers some hope for the
future.