VISIT TORQUAY
Riviera Life
Our iconic palm trees, busy harbour and international marina could fool you into thinking you were on the Mediterranean. Watch major sailing events from our waterfront eateries or enjoy Torquay's vibrant nightlife, with a variety of bars, cocktail venues and clubs. A packed, year-round programme of top West End shows at the Princess Theatre and a huge choice of events and festivals means no matter when you visit, you're bound to find something exciting to do.
Top Visitor Attractions
Torquay's wide range of visitor attractions means that one trip's never quite enough. Meet the seals and penguins at Living Coasts, meet the craftspeople at Cockington and watch them work, indulge in some retail therapy or discover the newly re-opened historic Torre Abbey.
VISIT BABBACOMBE BAY
Breathtaking Views
There are unbeatable views along the Devon coastline from the famous Babbacombe Downs, and make sure you board the Babbacombe Cliff Railway to descend to Oddicombe Beach. You'll also love visiting Bygones, where the sights, sounds and smells of Victorian streets surround you, and of course the must-see Babbacombe Model Village, with mini scenes from around the world.
Shopping and a show
Babbacombe and St Marychurch have some unique independent shops to discover and a packed events calendar; including sell-out shows at Babbacombe Theatre. Pre-performance, enjoy stunning views over dinner and visit the award winning Hanbury's and taste some of the best locally-caught fish and chips.
VISIT PAIGNTON
Family Fun
Go wild at Paignton Zoo, board our historic steam railway and take the plunge at Splashdown Quaywest, the UK's largest outdoor waterpark! And don't miss Parkfield Activity Centre or the free GeoPlay Park on Paignton Green. There's traditional seaside fun on Paignton Pier or at the amusement arcades in the town, and you'll find great souvenir shopping here too.
Seaside holidays
Climb aboard one of our sightseeing ferries or fishing excursions that leave from Paignton Harbour, or enjoy one of the many festivals on Paignton Green, form the fun-packed Children's Week and Paignton Regatta to the BMAD motorbike and music festival.
VISIT BRIXHAM
Pirates and smugglers
Bixham is famous for pirates – during May's Pirate Festival you can't move for all the swashbucklers, and there are even weekly Pirate Days in the summer! Find out more at the Smugglers Experience, or board the replica of Sir Francis Drake's ship The Golden Hind.
Fishing and festivals
Come and celebrate Brixham's maritime heritage with a host of events, from BrixFest to the annual Trawler Race. Our culinary and sea-faring traditions are celebrated during September's Fishstock, a lively festival of seafood and music. Soak up the Brixham fish experience by tasting the freshest local seafood, or tour our fish market. Finally, hike the stunning South West Coast Path to the Berry Head National Nature Reserve.
 