Dublin
OUTDOOR DUBLIN
With attractive public gardens, elegantly designed squares and the sprawling expanse of Phoenix Park, Dublin provides a wealth of green space, with plenty of opportunities for a stroll or an alfresco picnic. Outside the city, the shores of Dublin Bay offer bracing walks, while hardier souls might fancy a dip in the sea.
CHILDREN'S DUBLIN
There's plenty in Dublin for kids to enjoy. As well as the attractions shown here, there's fun to be had exploring the delights of the National Wax Museum and Tara's Palace or venturing into the great outdoors, with trips to Phoenix Park or the seaside. Most attractions and activities offer signiﬁcant discounts to children.
SHOPPERS' DUBLIN
Dublin boasts some excellent book and CD shops, the most notable of them specializing in Irish literature and music. Fashionistas are well catered for too, with plenty of boutiques, jewellery shops and department stores stocking the best of Irish and global design. On a ﬁne day, consider heading for a food market or an artisan deli and picnicking in one of the city's attractive squares.
SPORTING DUBLIN
Sport is an integral part of Irish life and no more so than in the capital. Gaelic football, hurling, soccer and rugby matches feature on pub TV screens and as a prominent part of daily conversation, and newspaper coverage seems boundless. Then there's also that well-known Irish fondness for a ﬂutter, be it on the horses or the dogs.
FESTIVALS
Dublin stages numerous festivals during the year. The arts are particularly well catered for, with major events devoted to theatre, ﬁlm, music and literature an established part of the calendar. There's plenty for children to enjoy as well, such as the St Patrick's festival and numerous events in Temple Bar.
FREE DUBLIN
Though Dublin is an expensive city, there are plenty of free attractions that won't burden your pocket or purse. Some major sites, such as the National Gallery and National Museum, charge no entrance fee except for special events. There's also plenty of street and outdoor entertainment, especially in summer.
DUBLIN TASTES
Dublin's culinary reputation is fast improving, though prices can sometimes be off-putting. The pleasures of modern Irish cuisine (as well as the ﬁner points of Guinness) are dealt with elsewhere, but there are plenty of traditional tastes that won't break the budget and will leave you with an evocative memory of the city.