I Love Italy Competition
For your chance of winning a weekend in Bassano Del Grappa, Italy, tick the 'x' on your favourite photo from the images opposite! It only takes a bit of imagination to find yourself in Italy.
HOW TO ENTER:
Choose both your favourite photo and tell us what 'Imagine More' means to you and then return your completed leaflet to the address opposite or enter online.
WIN:
The winner will receive a weekend break for two people to include complimentary tickets to Bassano Fotografia 11, a diverse photographic exhibition hosted by Manfrotto School of Xcellence. A series of exhibitions, workshops and seminars on photography, delivered by internationally renowned photographers, will contribute in transforming Bassano Del Grappa into the centre of photography and imagination. Whether you are an amateur photographer or an expert, Bassano del Grappa has something to offer everyone: A weekend immersion in art, culture, landscapes and photography.
FULL DETAILS:
The prize includes return flights to Italy for two people, bed and breakfast accommodation for three nights in Bassano Del Grappa from a Thursday to Sunday in October 2011. Keen photographers will also have the opportunity to visit some incredible landscapes that lend themselves perfectly for photography courtesy of Manfrotto School of Xcellence.
TERMS AND CONDITIONS:
The 'I Love Italy' competition closes on 30th September 2011. All entries must be received by this date. Manfrotto Distribution Ltd accepts no responsibility for entries received after this date or for entries lost in transit. By entering this competition you will also be opting into Manfrotto Distribution Ltd and Manfrotto School of Xcellence (MSoX) e-newsletters but you have the option to unsubscribe at any time. One entry per person only. Open to UK residents only. Entries from Manfrotto Distribution Ltd employees will not be accepted. Winners will be announced on the Manfrotto UK and MSo Xwebsites after the stated closing date and following contact via email. There is one prize (for two people) to Italy and is not redeemable for cash. *Valid email address required. For full Terms and Conditions please visit...