Skills for the 21-st century workplace
Have you got the skills you need for the 21st-century workplace?
We need to develop all kinds of skills to survive in the 21st century. Some, like ICT skills and knowledge of the digital world, are taught explicitly in schools in the UK. Here are five less obvious ones for you to think about. These are the sorts of skills that employers may ask you questions about in interviews, so it’s a good idea to think about how good you are in these areas. What are your strengths and weaknesses?
Imagination
In the age of technology that we are living in now, it is no longer enough to keep on making the same products. Employers need people who can imagine new approaches and new ideas.
Think: Think of an object or gadget you use every day. How could it be improved? Can you think of three improvements?
Problem solving
Employers will value workers who are able to see problems before they happen and come up with creative solutions.
Think: Imagine you are organising an end-of-term social event at school. Think of some problems that you could face. Can you think of any solutions?
Communication skills
Workers will have to be good communicators. They will have to be able to negotiate and discuss key issues and also write in a clear way without using too many words.
Think: How do people communicate with each other in the 21st century?
Critical analysis
Employers want workers who are able to recognise the difference between information that can be believed and false information.
Think: Use the internet to find out three facts about a celebrity or famous figure. Can you verify the information by checking other websites?
Decision making
Individual workers have a growing amount of responsibility. It is important to be able to evaluate a situation and be confident in making a decision.
Think: Which three things could you do to (a) be healthier (b) do better at school and (c) help others? Make a decision now to do at least one of these things. Then … just do it!