Museums
A) The Open Air Museum
The Open Air Museum is one of the oldest and largest in the world. Spread across 54 acres of land, the museum houses more than 40 farms, houses and mills from the period 1740-1950. The Museum offers presentations on a daily basis nearly all year long.
B) The Museum of Crafts
The mission of the Museum of Crafts is to enhance the appreciation and understanding of England's past by presenting the culture, history and lives of ordinary people through demonstration and exhibition and of the trades and crafts. The museum shop offers an excellent range of fun and educational gift items.
C) Museum of Fine Arts
Organized by the MFA, this splendid exhibition proposes a new approach to understanding 18th-century Dutch painting. The exhibition includes 35 carefully selected, beautifully preserved portraits, landscapes, genre scenes and seascapes borrowed from European private and public collections. The museum is open daily except Sundays.
D) The Museum of Technology
At MOT, the Museum of Technology, people of all ages can see and do amazing things every day. Ride in the only hydrogen car open to the public, witness what's next in 3D Printing the Future. There are child-friendly options available and families are always welcome.
E) Museum of Arts and Design (MAD)
The outstanding exhibition, Dutch Painting in the Age of Rembrandt, will be on view at the Museum of Arts and Design (MAD) until October 26. Anyone should make the effort to see this display of splendid 18th-century art. The exhibition is open seven days a week.
F) National Railway Museum
Based on the site of the biggest passenger railway station in the world, National Railway Museum truly is a museum for everybody. Kids, small and big will be fascinated by the exhibitions, while the huge collection of historic working machinery and vintage vehicles is absolutely fascinating.
G) Middleport Pottery
Travel back in time and discover the history of Dutch pottery including a fabulous collection of "Gouds plateel", the top pieces of which are being exhibited in the room 28. See items from Gouda on display and visit the museum shop and café.
H) The Kroneberg Porcelain Museum
The Kroneberg Porcelain Museum exhibits examples of the well-known porcelain factory's production from 1867-1983. You will find unique artwork from different periods and countless examples of household china. Our cafe is temporarily closed due to a gas leak.