Transport in London
TICKETS TO TRAVEL
Single fares are available for any journey, although visitors will ﬁnd it easier and better value to purchase a Travelcard. Travelcards are valid for use on the Underground, bus, DLR, tram and national rail, and also offer a one-third discount on River services. They are available for one, three or seven days, and in peak or off-peak versions for one and three days.
CONGESTION CHARGE
If you are driving in central London between 7am and 6pm Mon-Fri (except public holidays), you need to pay the Congestion Charge. The charge is £8 per day, which must be paid in advance or on the day of travel. If you pay by midnight the next day, the charge is £10.
NATIONAL RAIL
Trains are useful for reaching places that are not served by the Tube. Mainline stations include: Waterloo and Victoria, serving the south of England; Paddington, the south-west; Euston, the north; King's Cross, the north-east; and Liverpool Street, the east.
UNDERGROUND
There are 12 colour-coded Tube lines. Most operate from 5am to 12.30am Mon-Sat, and from 7.30am to 11.30pm on Sundays. It's cheaper and less crowded to avoid the rush hour and travel after 9.30am. The network is divided into six concentric zones – zone 1 is the central area.
AIRLINES
Virgin Atlantic Airways links London with major cities in the USA and across the world. British Airways carries passengers between 175 domestic and international destinations. BMI, the UK's second largest airline, operates from Heathrow and offers low-cost domestic and European ﬂights and ﬂies to international destinations.
TO LONDON BY BUS
Green Line operates three coaches an hour to Baker Street, Marble Arch and Victoria. Fares from £11 single; journey time 75 mins. EasyBus runs every 40 mins to Baker Street. Fares from £2 single; journey time about 55 mins.
COACHES
A quick and inexpensive way of making a day trip out of London. Victoria Coach Station is a major hub for various bus companies.
DOCKLANDS LIGHT RAILWAY
The DLR connects the City and the Underground network with Docklands. It's also a useful link to Maritime Greenwich. Services operate from 5.30am to 12.30am and tickets must be purchased before boarding a train.