Places to go this summer
1. Stratford Butterfly Farm
The biggest butterfly farm in Europe. Whatever the weather come and see these beautiful creatures as they would live in their natural environment. Walk around a tropical rainforest as butterflies fly freely around you. See them as they come into the world in the Caterpillar Room. And don't miss Insect City where you can view huge spiders and our very own scorpion colony!
2: National Sea-Life Centre
You wouldn't expect to bump into a hammerhead shark whilst visiting Brum city centre. But yes, it's true, The National Sea Life Centre in Birmingham is the only aquarium in the UK where you can see this creature along with our Sea Dragons from Australia and baby stingrays from the Amazon. We guarantee an experience you'll never forget.
3: Coventry Transport Museum
Coventry Transport Museum hosts the world's largest transport collection. A day out here will give you the chance to see some of the earliest motor cars as well as more modern vehicles like the De Lorean 'back from the future' car. You can also design your own car and experience what breaking the sound barrier at 763 miles an hour feels like.
4: Warwick Castle
Regarded by many as Britain's greatest Medieval Castle. Visit exhibitions, climb the castle towers, relax as you walk around the gardens, designed and created in 1753 by Capability Brown. Experience the preparations for battle in the Kingmaker exhibition or witness a Victorian Royal Weekend. And if your interest is more in the darker side of the Castle's history visit The Castle Dungeon.
5: ThinkTank
At Thinktank you will find four floors of hands-on exhibits and historical collections that will amaze and inspire you, showing you the science of the world all around us from the past, the present and the future. From galleries and exhibitions to an exciting programme of events and activities, there is something for everyone to enjoy, whether your interest is steam engines, looking into deepest space or seeing how doctors perform life-saving surgery.
6: Drayton Manner
One of the UK's most popular attractions. The park is home to some of the scariest rides you'll find like Stormforce 10 and Apocalypse, which has been voted the UK's most frightening ride. You'll also find an indoor and outdoor play area and of course, Drayton Manor Zoo with over one hundred different species, including twelve rare breeds from across the world.
7: Hatton Country World
If you're keen on seeing unique crafts and craft work side-by-side with antique shops and a traditional butchers shop, Hatton Country World is the place for you. As well as these wonderful shops you'll be able to enjoy the Farm Park with many farm animals to help keep the kids entertained.
8: Black Country Museum
It's been called Britain's friendliest open-air museum. Come to Black Country Museum and discover an old-fashioned village by the canal. Look around original old-fashioned shops and houses, see what it's like down a mine and take a ride on a tramcar.