Courses
A) ITB and computer courses
Full-time courses
This full-time course is designed to help you improve your digital skills you use in everyday life. These skills will help you to use computers confidently and effectively in both your working and personal life. This course is suitable for those who want to study in the evening.
B) NTB
A Photographic Adventure
Based in the heart of The Pembrokeshire Coast National Park, NTB aim is to provide holidays that are 'a true photographic adventure'. With knowledgeable and friendly guides, tours visit some of the most beautiful spots in England and provide great opportunity for all abilities to take some amazing pictures.
C) 3D Studio
Part-time courses
3D Studio has a fun 34-week photo challenge. All courses are led by a professional photographer who has specific skills to teach you. By learning with 3D Studio you will be taken to the best places and venues in the countryside. The course takes place on Saturdays, 3.30-6.00 p.m.
D) Adam Elliot Studio
Renaissance Painting Workshop
During this workshop students will be taught the classical methods of oil painting used by Italian and Flemish masters of the late 16th and early 17th centuries. This workshop is suitable for students of all levels of experience. Classes are on Monday and Wednesday from 9-11 a.m.
E) Santa Reparata
Supplementary Art Course
The main aim of this short course is to provide an introduction to one of the most fascinating period of the Italian Art. The one week painting course is suitable for absolute beginners. Classes are from 6.30-9.30 p.m. Monday to Friday.
F) The Art Academy
Open Life Class
This is an informative, intensive and fun weekend course, which teaches essential drawing skills. Through various drawing approaches including life drawing, portraiture and still life, you will learn to understand texture, line, measurement and composition.
G) The Open University
Computing and IT
Our Adult courses give you the chance to boost your confidence and develop your work skills. This cutting-edge course will prepare you for progression to further study in computing and software development. Full-time and part-time courses are available.
H) Jennifer Collins Theatre School
Musical theatre courses
The aim of this course is to provide participants with the opportunity to train to the highest standards for a professional career in Dance and Musical Theatre. We offer a chance to meet new friends in a very happy environment.