Holidays
A) Catalonia
Baobab Travel
This is an incredible family adventure holiday full of discovery, nature and activity, for fun seeking families wanting an amazing adventure close to home. From the mountain to the coast, Catalonia offers a beautiful and diverse location for this incredible multi-activity holiday.
B) DVT
Dive Worldwide
With resorts around the Canary Islands, we have a variety of great scuba diving sites for you to choose from. We are all professional divers ourselves and understand what makes a perfect diving holiday. DVT dive centres are available for adults and children 12 years and above.
C) Jana Holidays
Ecuador and Colombia
Experience Ecuador and Colombia in under 2 weeks. A mixture of Andean landscapes, colonial cities, coffee zone and welcoming locals. Begin in Bogota where our local guides can take you on a walking tour to La Candelaria to explore beautifully preserved colonial buildings and other important sites.
D) Virgin Travel
Multi-destination holidays
The beauty of a multi-centre holiday is that it allows you to fit more of what you love into a single trip. You can shop yourself in Los Angeles, then unwind on the beach in Florida. It's the perfect opportunity for anybody who wants a jam-packed trip.
E) Absolute Travel
The Spanish Pyrenees
A multi activity adventure holiday in Spain that will see you explore the Spanish Pyrenees with a number of guided tours – walking, climbing , rafting and canyoning. We'll also visit Zaragoza which is a treasure trove of cultural and historical gems. Tourists will find many magnificent buildings and ancient Roman ruins.
F) Escape Holidays
Aussie
The best way to get a good deal in this tropical paradise is through a dream package holiday that bundles accommodation with airfares, meals and activities. The beaches in Sydney are beautiful, with the world-famous Bondi Beach just a short bus ride from the city centre.
G) First Choice
Spas - Costa del Sol & Andalucia
There are eight classic spas in lovely natural surroundings in Andalucía. Most of them are near or in beautiful villages and are located at the source of natural spring waters. Beauty treatments include a range of scrubs, masks, peels, wraps and massages.
H) Carnar Diving & Watersports
Snorkeling Holidays
The crystal clear waters of the Caribbean offer many snorkeling opportunities, including the dive sites of the Bahamas. Between July and November, huge numbers of tiger sharks gather of Mexico's Yucatan Peninsula, providing snorkelers with the opportunity to see one of the most amazing marine life events on earth.