Hotels
A) Hotel Inn
Located right on Main Street, the most dynamic entertainment destination, the premium city centre location of the hotel offers everything from restaurants and music clubs to exclusive club nights, theatres, cinemas and shopping centres.
B) Cordial Hotel
Lying in the heart of the city Cordial Hotel is surrounded by some of the most beautiful scenery. It is very close to the main bus and train stations and just a ten minute walk from the city centre. Our hotel provides free parking facilities for our house guests.
C) Casa Hotel
Casa Hotel is a fashionable three star hotel perfectly located in a peaceful neighbourhood with a scenic view. Our guests can choose from the most popular sightseeing tours by boat and bus and other programs, such as rural tours.
D) The Viceroy
The Viceroy is a luxury hotel in the heart of Poirott Village offering a vibrant, refreshing holiday experience. The hotel is just a 100 metres to the newly developed Snowman Village and award winning ski school.
E) Mercure Hotel
Located in the heart of the old town, the hotel is connected to Hall Triangle Interchange and is within easy reach of the M18. The hotel offers on site car parking for up to 48 cars. Free WiFi connection is available throughout the hotel.
F) The Link Hotel
Seven hundred metres from the track, this 15 bedroomed family run hotel is set in 5 acres of beautiful grounds. Home cooked meals, cosy bar with log burner. With car parking and free Wi-Fi the hotel provides excellent value.
G) Hotel Mitus
Hotel Mitus is within walking distance of the train station. Situated on the river, the 3-star hotel boasts family services, such as family rooms and a play area. Our hotel is ideal for business travellers, thanks to the free WiFi and desk space in the rooms, as well as the five meeting rooms.
H) Hôtel des Alpes
This cosy family hotel is located incredibly close to nature. It is situated in the middle of the amazing hiking and ski resort in Tyrol at a sunny altitude of 1,100 metres. Our hotel offers good value accommodation.