Comedy Kids
Do you enjoy watching comedy? Do all your friends at school think
you tell great jokes? Then why not come and see whatís happening
at Comedy Kids?
Comedy Kids own comedy clubs in several countries that are run
just for young people aged 10-15. Theyíre real clubs with real
comedians, who are just as familiar with working in adult comedy
clubs as they are working with children. But donít take our word for
it ñ come and see for yourself!
The Comedy Kids company was set up by John Winterton, who says that no-one had thought of
being a stand-up comedian for young people until he came along. In fact, his act quickly became so
popular that he soon found lots of other comedians who wanted to join his company and perform for
families and young people. And if you think, as many others do, that a young peopleís comedian
leaps on stage in a brightly-coloured costume and big red nose ñ think again. John usually appears
dressed in a cool black jacket and trousers ñ more like a Hollywood movie star than a circus clown!
If youíre having a party at home Comedy Kids can come and perform for you there at your party ñ
just ask! Of course, itís not the same as performing on stage, so weíre always looking for comedians
in the clubs who are good at working with small numbers of young people ñ and weíve discovered
there arenít many of them about! But the ones we have found are brilliant. Your very own
comedian will also help you to tell your guests some jokes and silly stories ñ and they can join in
too, if they want! Itíll be fun ñ and very different from any party youíve ever had before!
Here at Comedy Kids, itís not just about the adults telling the jokes. We also have very short ëopen
spotsí where young people get the chance to perform. But weíve yet to find someone who can do
that without preparation, so weíve set up the worldís first ëComedy Classesí to teach young people
how to tell jokes on stage. At the moment our classes are only monthly, but weíre planning to start a
number of others over the coming year. So if you want to be a comedian but donít want to wait until
you grow up, this is where you can do it. And if youíre creative but feel youíre lacking in the
confidence to speak up, we can certainly help. Weíll listen to what you want to do, and try to make
it happen.
So what are you waiting for? Come and join Comedy Kids! 