Puerto Rico
THRIVING TOURISM INDUSTRY
Puerto Rico's booming tourism industry continues to blossom. Nowadays, we have new cruise lines docking in our ports and more airlines adding Puerto Rico as a destination with direct flights. Along with the tourism increase, new renovations have taken place throughout the entire tourism industry and the Sheraton Old San Juan has been no exception. Being the only branded upscale hotel located in the heart of historic Old San Juan, our hotel has started its upgrade plans. With over $20 million to be invested by the end of 2016, the hotel will have completely remodelled all rooms and common areas with a new colour scheme of sleepy blues and divine whites, creating a fashionable yet relaxing environment. It is just what you need for your next travel.
OLD SAN JUAN: A CULINARY CAPITAL
Puerto Rico is known for its amazing and delicious food. And the Old San Juan is no exception. It is filled with restaurants and with flavours. With world-class chefs and renown barmen, you are in for a great and delicious treat. That is why it is no mistake when Travel + Leisure place Puerto Rico as the number one cuisine in the entire Caribbean. Are you in the mood for something in particular? Ask out front desk and they will gladly give you a variety to choose from. Don't forget to try the traditional Puerto Rican dishes: Mofongo, Asopao and Lechon and the drinks: Pina Colada, Mojitos and our locally brewed beers.
SHERATON SWEET SLEEPER BED
The Sheraton Sweet Sleeper™ Bed is found in each of our guest rooms and is comprised of luxurious sheets, a deluxe duvet, a selection of feather down and hypoallergenic pillows, and a custom mattress. You can enjoy the comfort of Sheraton's Sweet Sleeper Bed in your own home. Order the complete Sweet Sleeper Bed for a restful night's sleep, every night.
Outstanding Amenities Including
100% Non-Smoking Guestrooms, including outdoor balconies
Balcony available
Connecting Rooms available
ADA Accessible Rooms available
Bay or City View Rooms available
Iron/Ironing Board
Air-Conditioned Room
In-Room Safe oversized for a laptop
Coffee maker with complimentary Starbucks coffee and teas
High speed WI-FI and Ethernet
42 inch LCD television with cable/movie channels
The Sheraton Sweet Sleeper™ Bed