Books
A) Henry Jowett
The Portrait of a Woman
The charming Evelyn Blanchet was a French woman who came to England in the eighteenth century and won the hearts of young men wherever she appeared. This enjoyable romance shows us the elegant evening dresses, the wonderful rooms and Evelyn's gleaming eyes in an imaginary world full of gardens and palaces.
B) Patience Jones
The English Corner
In a quiet English village by the sea, a young French widow gets a second chance at love. Annabel Ginger hasn't been back to the village of Abberton since she buried her husband two years ago. Now she's returning with her 4-year-old daughter, Alice.
C) Robin Greene
Migration
In the dark future of Jupiter XI, more than 90 per cent of the world's population have died. Killed by themselves and others who were listening to voices steering their dreadful actions. Those who survived live in a very hostile environment. Totally unexpected ending with so many twists and turns.
D) Ann Kaufman
Baby Dance
This fabulous board book follows five American puppies (including a rather cheeky yorkie) as they play and dance the day away. Using delightful rhyme and simple language, American author Ann Kaufman has created a fun, rhythmical story that is a joy to read and alluring to little ears.
E) Bruce Nolan
Landia
Landia is a medieval world filled with pirates and warriors, adventures and battles, and a group of boys trying to find their place in the world. The story focuses on a bunch of naughty boys who, as part of their coming of age, must go through six months of tough physical training on land and sea to become warriors.
F) Automobile Association
Walks and Tours in United Kingdon
A free guide (French edition) with practical tips and advice to help you get the most out of your trip to United Kingdom. It includes detailed information on history, museums, galleries, churches as well as some useful information about accommodation. There are suggested tour routes, maps and directions.
G) Izaak Watson
The Perfect Storm
The "Silver Guide" series from St. George's Press has been around since the late 60's and is known for its comprehensive coverage on a wide range of nature topics. "The Perfect Storm" is no exception. The book is widely considered to be one of the leading guidebooks for the beginner angler.
H) Doris McCartney
The Princess
Open the book and you won't be disappointed, for what follows is a fascinating adventure with fantastical places and amazing creatures, all to be found just on the verge of reality, if only you could squeeze through the lavender hedge at the bottom of the garden to find it.