Speak easy
We have all sat through somebody
mumbling a series of disconnected
thoughts and wondered when it was
going to end. It is important to
remember how you felt for the person
doing the talk. Most probably, you
sympathised with them and were
relieved for them when they had ‘got
through it’. This is important because
your audience will also want the best
for you. Visualise yourself delivering a
witty, clever and informative
presentation with the audience
hanging on every word.
 ‘Nobody plans to fail, they simply fail
to plan.’ Nowhere is this truer than in
the arena of public speaking. The
classic format for any talk has a
beginning, a middle and an end. Think
about how long you want the talk to
last and plan the content of the talk to
fit the right amount of time. Also, think
about your audience: make sure your
approach to the subject of your talk is
neither too complex nor too simple for
them. If you are going to use prompts,
small cards are quite good as they can
be discreet and relatively unnoticeable
compared to large sheets of paper.
 Wherever possible, make sure you
know the venue of your talk and check
that people can see you and any
slides or diagrams you might be using
to support your points. When talking to
a large group, try to keep very close to
the front row as this creates a feeling
of togetherness. Some of the best
comedians use this closeness to
encourage a feeling of secrecy, telling
you things as a stage whisper in order
to build this intimacy.
 It is important that you stand
comfortably with both feet rooted to
the floor but slightly apart. Without
realising it, there will be a tendency to
‘retreat’ from the audience or you may
sway from side to side. Therefore,
think of ways to counteract this when
rehearsing (e.g. imagine you are
wearing heavy lead shoes on your feet
which are keeping your heels down).
Try not to lean on tables or get your
arms too close to your body as you will
restrict your lungs and impair your
ability to project your voice. Although it
may help you feel more relaxed, try
not to walk about when delivering your
speech as this will be distracting for
your audience.
 As with any skill, practice is vital. The
more you practise, the more confident
you will be. Try not to simply read out
what you have prepared, and picture
yourself talking confidently and
knowledgeably about your subject.
After you have been presenting to the
mirror for a while, you will begin to see
which gestures and facial movements
work and which ones look wrong.
Remember that nobody wants you to
do badly and try to feel positive that
you are going to deliver an interesting
and informative talk.
 Despite the fact that we all feel shy or
nervous about talking to a large group,
the reality in a lot of cases is that, once
we get talking and feeling confident,
we all have the ability to ‘perform’. But
remember to talk in a controlled
manner, as we all have a tendency to
rush once we are in front of a big
crowd. Also, if you are going to be
using a microphone, then practise with
it first. If not, make sure that your voice
can fill the room for the time you are
speaking or reduce the time that you
are going to talk. Breathing exercises
and voice projection techniques will all
help.