Four Hotels Review
The Yarborough
Well, where do I start? We booked a long weekend away and I had requested a quiet room as we're not into the late night revelry. We arrived early and the duty manager offered to put our bags in storage to allow us the chance to get out and about without the hindrance of our luggage. We returned at 2 pm to check in where all was dealt with quickly and efficiently. The duty manager allocated us room 329 on the 3rd floor.
Wow, what a room, we have stayed in many 5-star hotels and this was on par with all of them. It was absolutely immaculate. The bedroom was large and comfortable, the air conditioning was a touch of luxury given the standard of hotel and there was a quality TV with crystal clear pictures. Iron and ironing board in the room and even bottled water to compliment the hot drinks selection. We both enjoyed the lunches and breakfasts that we ate here, very tasty and very reasonably priced and the service was second to none. Despite the restaurant and bar being constantly busy, all the staff members had time to smile and chat to you. I would have preferred a buffet breakfast, but that is a small thing.
The hotel is located adjacent to the railway station and ideally placed for shopping in the town centre. This is a real hidden gem of a hotel good and at only £49 per night was excellent value for money. I will definitely return to this hotel for our next visit to Grimsby in the summer when we are having a big anniversary party. We will be singing its praises to all of my friends, family and work colleagues. Thank you to all at the Yarborough.
Humber Royal
My fiancé and I came to stay at The Humber Royal Hotel. After meeting with Melissa, the owner, we instantly felt comfortable and reassured that our wedding would be in good hands! Unlike most wedding venues, there was absolutely no pressuring us into making any decision and every detail that we requested was listened to. Vanessa dedicated a lot of time and effort into making us feel comfortable and assured us that no corners would be cut and put together a beautiful plan together for our special day.
The rooms are to a very high standard, very spacious and excellent value for money. Our room had an excellent view of the harbour too, which we weren't expecting. We stayed for an evening meal within the venue, the service was incredible and the food was absolutely delicious. Excellent value for money! We can't wait to show off our venue to our family and friends and to spend our wedding day with the staff at The Humber Royal.
The St. James
Stayed here for Valentine's Day. We eventually found our room through the labrynth of corridors and thought it was OK. Nothing more, nothing less. Around 7pm, there was very loud music which we soon realised was the live music performance downstairs. We didn't have to leave the room to experience the entertainment as could hear every word in the bedroom! We could even hear people's conversations from the street below! We went down for the meal at 8pm and that was lovely, I couldn't fault it whatsoever. When we mentioned the loud music to our waiter, he acted as if he didn't believe us!
We went back to the round around 10pm and the music was louder than ever and went on for another hour or so. I understand it's for everyone else's benefit that was still down there but to hear every song as clear as day is just ridiculous! The bed felt as though it had been there for fifty years, with springs in your back when you move and very noisy. All in all, the worst night's sleep we've ever had!
Partly we're glad we stayed as we wanted to book our wedding here for next year, but definitely will not be doing so now! Will not be recommending nor returning!
Healing Manor
This hotel is not quite as dog friendly as we had hoped and as a result should be more described as a hotel with dog-friendly rooms. Firstly you cannot take your dog to breakfast, you have to leave them behind in the room, or for no extra charge you can have room service but there are no table and chairs in the room to eat your food at.
The rooms were clean and a good size. The shower was amazing, probably the best shower I have had in years! The bed was a little bouncy for my liking and I have to say I'm never a fan of a double room that is actually two beds pushed together - those beds just are not comfortable for two cuddlers!
We received a handwritten note and some macaroons to wish us a Happy New Year, which was a lovely touch. The grounds of the hotel are stunningly beautiful and I bet make the perfect setting for a wedding.
On checking out, we noticed a few errors with our bill that we questioned and they rectified immediately. Just annoying that the errors were there in the first place.
In short, decent value overall but rooms are a bit tired and in need of care and think their dog policy in the main hotel could do with being reviewed. Why not offer dog-friendly breakfast in the Pig and Whistle pub, which is undoubtedly the jewel in your crown?