Spectacled Bear
Thanks for inviting me tonight. As you know, my main interest
is in conservation and I’m lucky enough to work with lots of
different organisations looking after animals both in captivity
and in the wild. I’d been fascinated by all kinds of bears for a
long time before I started working in this field. But it was the
spectacled bear that really attracted me – some people find it
appealing because of its size and shape, and it’s less well known
than other types of bear, but for me I thought it was such a
great name! It comes from the patches of yellowish fur around
the bear’s eyes which grow in a sort of circle shape, like glasses,
although these golden markings vary greatly from one bear to
another and may not be limited to the eyes – they can extend
as far as the bear’s cheeks or even chest.
I’d like to explain what we know about this bear, and why I find
it so fascinating. It’s the only survivor of a type of bear that once
ranged across America during the last Ice Age. We thought that
it was only found in certain places in Venezuela and Chile, but I
was thrilled to read some reports that suggested it might also be
living in northern parts of Argentina and eastern Panama.
It’s quite difficult to find spectacled bears in the wild because they
are quite shy animals, and tend to live in a wide variety of habitats,
which can range from dry coastal deserts to high mountain areas
above 4,000 metres. They are most commonly found in forests,
though. Being such timid animals they tend to come out at night,
which is another thing that makes them difficult to see, though,
like me, you may be surprised to learn that they don’t sleep all
through the winter as many other types of bear do.
We’re not sure about the actual number of spectacled bears that
remain in the wild, but it’s been estimated that there are only
about 2,400 still around. The bears are endangered not so much
because they are hunted by other animals, but what I find really
sad is the fact that humans destroy their habitat. Spectacled
bears are quite small compared with other bears, and of course
they do have other enemies – these mostly include mountain
lions and jaguars – but they remain a smaller threat.
The bears are primarily vegetarian, and their normal diet is tree
bark and berries. On rare occasions though they eat honey,
which I thought was just something in children’s books. I was
interested to find that they are incredibly good climbers, and
one thing I found really funny is that they’ve been known to sit
up a tree for days – they make a platform – why? – I couldn’t
guess, but they’re waiting for fruit to ripen so they can eat it! It’s
quite surprising that although they rarely eat meat they have
extremely strong jaws and wide, flat teeth. Very occasionally
they do eat meat – something like birds or insects though they
like small mice best if they can get them!
We’re really trying to make people more aware of the bears, and
we’ve made a television series about one man’s efforts to make
people understand the dangers facing the animals. He spent a
long time in Peru studying them, and has published a very funny
diary of his time there. I hope everyone will read it, and support
our efforts to help these fascinating creatures!