Novel
There was a small breeze when Christine came out for her lunch as she usually did,
even when it was raining, instead of going up to the store canteen. You could never get
a table to yourself there, and whoever sat with you always wanted to complain about
the shop, the customers, the management or the canteen food. Everyone at Goldwyn’s
seemed to have a complaint of some kind, although it was one of the best London
stores to work for, and many of the staff had been there for years – some of them were
long past retiring age. This was because the management let them stay on even when
they were really past it, like poor old Martha, who was always trying to sell people
dresses that were much too old for them.
Christine herself had been in the book department for more than four years. She had
started as a junior, knocking over piles of books and breaking the till once a week in her
efforts to serve customers quickly. Now she was Head Salesperson and moved calmly
around the department between the bright new paperbacks, knowing that book
customers liked to take their time, unlike the people who stampeded through the other
parts of the shop with never a moment to spare.
She knew every book in the place, and all about the new ones before they came out.
She was said to be Mr Parker’s right-hand person – and heaven knows he needed one –
and was sometimes asked into his office to meet a favoured publisher’s representative.
The book department, partly due to Mr Parker’s weak administration and partly
because it was thought to be sophisticated, was the only department in Goldwyn’s
where you did not have to wear black. This led to some confusion as to who was an
assistant and who was a customer, not untypical of bookshops, and accounted for the
distressed look of people who picked up a book they wanted but were afraid of having
their elbows grasped by the store detective before they could find someone to take their
money.
Christine was wearing her grey suit today. She liked the grey suit. She had liked it
for a long time, because she had accepted her aunt’s advice that it was better to buy an
expensive suit that would last than to keep buying cheap suits that looked very smart
for a few weeks, until they began to wrinkle at the elbows and sag at the seat. The grey
suit had been what the shop had called a ‘classic’, which meant that nobody would ever
turn round in the street to look at it, but it would stand having its skirt taken up or let
down according to the swings of fashion.
Christine liked her work, as much as one can like any job that imprisons one from
nine till five-thirty. She liked Goldwyn’s, but she was always glad to get away from it
at lunchtime, even though it meant queuing for a table at one of the restaurants and
teashops that fed the local shop-workers. Here people tended to eat with one eye on
their watches and had a taste for things like pasta and puddings which were the most
filling at the least cost. But Christine, once seated, enjoyed a leisurely, if lonely,
sandwich.
Alice, who was her junior, was always meeting people at lunchtime. Even if it was
only a man who had picked up her handkerchief in the cafeteria, she made it sound
exciting, like an adventure. Alice and the other junior, Helen, were always giggling in
the classics section where the customers did not go much. If Christine came along, they
would suddenly look serious and pretend to be straightening books. Christine thought
this should have made her feel very old, but it didn’t. She was so much happier than she
had been at the giggling age. She liked her authority in the book department.
Sometimes, outside, she insecurely wondered how she stood in relation to the rest of
the world. At Goldwyn’s she was someone