Young Mother
Lisa Tyler was weary after a long, hard day at the pottery factory where she works. But as she
approached her home in the English city of Stoke-on-Trent, her heart lightened.; soon she
would be having a nice cup of tea, putting her feet up and watching Friends, her favourite TV
series. But first, she needed to change out of her work clothes and pick up her three-year-old
son from his grandmother‟s house nearby.
As Lisa walked up her garden path, she noticed a light flashing on and off in an upstairs bedroom. A
shiver went down her back. What if it was a burglar? Quietly, she crept round to the back of the house to
see if there was any sign of a break-in. Sure enough, a window was open and someone‟s coat was
hanging on the gatepost!
Well, 26-year-old Lisa didn‟t fancy coming face to face with a burglar, so she ran to a neighbour‟s house
and rang the police. But as she sat waiting for the police to arrive, Lisa‟s curiosity got the better of her
and she decided to go back and see what was going on. That‟s when she saw a leg coming out of the
downstairs front window. It was a man climbing out. Lisa gasped in shock. The burglar was carrying her
portable television!
At this point, Lisa saw red. She didn‟t have many possessions and she‟d saved long and hard to buy
that set. Besides, nobody was going to stop her watching Friends.
„Oh, no you don‟t,‟ she muttered under her breath, as the fury swelled inside her. Without even stopping
to think, she tore across the garden and started shouting at the burglar. „Give me my TV - drop it now!‟
she screamed.
Ignoring her, the man fled across the garden. So Lisa threw herself at him and successfully rugbytackled him to the ground. The burglar struggled to escape, but Lisa hung on like the best kind of guard
dog despite being punched and kicked. As she looked up, she realised that she recognised the burglar‟s
face. She was so surprised that she lost her grip and burglar got away, leaving the TV behind in the
garden.
By the time the police and her father arrived, Lisa was in tears. ‟I can‟t believe you were so foolish, Lisa,'
scolded her father. „You could have been killed.‟
„I know, but at least he didn‟t get my TV,‟ she replied.
Lisa later remembered the name of the burglar, who had been in the same year as her at school. He was
later caught and jailed for 15 months after admitting burglary and assault. In May last year, Lisa was
given a Certificate of Appreciation by Staffordshire Police, for her „outstanding courage and public
action‟. But in the future she intends to leave household security to a new member of her family, Chan,
who is real guard dog. 