Interview with Mickey Smith
F: Today on the programme we have Mickey Smith, author of
the book The Power of Practice. Mickey, in your book you talk
about what makes a champion sportsperson. Your argument
is that talent – a natural aptitude or skill – doesn’t exist. Right?
M: Right. I know that’s controversial because it’s thought that
people are born with natural abilities. I have my critics but
the evidence from research I’ve done backs up my argument.
If you look at anyone who’s reached a high level in any
complex task, you’ll find they’ve spent many years building
up to it. This has started other people thinking and doing
their own research. I’ve no doubt they’ll reach the same
conclusions I have.
F: What about physical abilities like speed? Isn’t that what
makes one footballer better than another, for example?
M: There are physical issues that are significant in some
activities. However, in virtually all complex tasks the limiting
factor is a mental thing. People don’t become the greatest
footballers because they move around the pitch quickly.
While he may not realise it, the way a great footballer
understands where his teammates are around him on the
field is what helps him score goals, rather than speed.
F: In your book you also talk about geographical areas
where lots of people become experts in the same activity.
Gymnastics, for example.
M: The town I grew up in produced the top gymnasts of my
generation, myself included. My initial reaction when I got
to the top was, ‘Wow’, I must have been born with this
ability to do gymnastics. But what about the others? What I
now understand is that this excellence was down to having
access to a fantastic coach and a 7-day-a-week gymnastics
club, where we transformed ourselves from ordinary to
extraordinary. Opportunity’s another factor determining
success.
F: Your argument is that to become excellent you have to
practise for thousands of hours. That’s a lot of training.
M: That’s right. How successful you are is down to how long
you’re prepared to work. Evidence suggests those who make it
believe excellence relies on practice. If you believe being good
at something is down to natural ability, when you fail, you’ll
think you don’t have enough of it – and you’re more likely to
give up. If you believe excellence is about effort, when you fail
you’re going to see it as an opportunity to grow.
F: What approach should coaches take when training
youngsters in sport?
M: The way to go about it is to ensure the child enjoys what
they’re learning – that it becomes an internal desire to
progress. Coaching young people is more about psychology
than it is about the technical side of things – it’s making
the young performer really care about where they’re going,
motivating them in the right way, that will enable them to
actually get there – little difference from how you encourage
adults really.
F: Why don’t more people who play sport try harder to improve?
M: Well, they see sports stars and assume they were born
brilliant, but there’s no evidence to suggest that. You just
don’t see the painstaking process it took to get them there
when they’re winning games on your TV screen. If you did,
their brilliance wouldn’t seem so miraculous. The illusion is
to think they got there quickly and think ‘Oh my goodness, I
could never get up that slope.’
F: Given everything you’ve said about top performers, why
do they sometimes fail at crucial moments? That’s called
‘choking’, right?
M: Yes. It’s to do with the expectation to succeed, no matter
how many times they’ve done it before. When you first
practise a skill you have to exert conscious control over
it. When you become proficient you’re able to do it
subconsciously. When you choke you become so anxious
that instead of delivering your skill automatically, you
become conscious of what you’re doing and it’s like you’ve
never done it before.
F: Thank you very much [FADE]