Visiting a wildlife park 
PRESENTER: Welcome to Burton Safari Park. This cassette has
been made so that you can listen to a guided tour as you
drive round the wildlife park in your car. Burton is one of
Europe’s oldest wildlife parks. Here you can see wild
animals from all over the world – and they’re not in cages.
Before we start, we do have some information for the
animals’ safety and for your own. First, please stay in your
car at all times. In case of emergency or breakdown, please
use your horn and lights and a ranger will come and help
you. If you’d like to stop, please do so on the left side of the road, allowing traffic to pass on the right. 
Please do not feed the animals. Our animals are fed on special diets and
your leftover picnic might make them ill or even kill them.
We’re starting our tour with some of Burton’s most
interesting wild animals, our four white rhinos from South
Africa. The white rhino doesn’t get its name from its
colour. The African word white means wide and the white
rhino has a wide mouth which helps it eat grasses. Sadly
there aren’t many rhinos left in the world today. Poachers
hunt rhinos for their horns which can be made into things
like handles for knives.
Burton’s oldest animals are two female rhinos, Maggot
and Mary. They’ve been here since the park opened thirty
years ago. They’re great friends and could live to be forty.
Head keeper, Anne Stewart, has worked with rhinos and
other large animals at Burton for twenty years.
ANNE: Rhinos can be dangerous – er – these ones here have
been here a long time so they know me and I know them.
Their hearing’s excellent but their eyesight is poor so it’s
important that I talk and then they recognise my voice and
they’re OK with me.
PRESENTER: Anne has noticed how intelligent the rhinos are.
They can tell the vet’s Volvo car from any other Volvo and
become suspicious if a car is not going round the normal
route.
ANNE: One of the keepers has a special but dangerous job:
checking the rhinos’ toes. There are three toes on each
foot, and they have to be checked regularly in case they get
damaged. There are two male rhinos, Harold and Arthur,
who came to Burton from the north of England. Harold in
particular can get quite angry at times. Their keeper says
sometimes rhinos might want to have a little rub on the
side of your car. It’s because it’s a convenient place to
scratch themselves, but it’s nothing to worry about really.
Just drive out of the way and keep clear of them if they
look as though they are going to use your car in this way. If
you can’t move, sound the horn and someone will come
and rescue you.
PRESENTER: White rhinos spend most of their time eating when
they’re not sleeping or taking a mud bath. The rhinos’ diet
is mostly grass and sugar. The keepers make a special
mixture for them which they seem to enjoy very much.
They have a good life really! And now let’s move on to …
(fade)