My school
The village school was originally just one small stone
building, built in the early 1870s and, unlike many
modern schools, it was on a large piece of land, which
meant that it had an enormous grassy playground.
By the time I started school, two cheaply-constructed
modern extensions had been added to the original
building. On one side were two extra classrooms, and
on the other was a kitchen and dining area where we
had lunch.
As in many small villages, we often had two or three age
groups in one classroom because of the small number
of pupils in each year. In my first year, for example, my
class sat together with the second and third years in the
headteacher’s classroom. Many of our lessons were
the same for all the class, though the teacher obviously
had higher expectations of the older children. Strange
though it may seem, I used to think that the third-year
children were almost grown-up then.
Most of us walked to school, but the children who didn’t
live nearby, especially those who lived on farms a few
kilometres away, cycled to school. I remember being
very impressed by those who could ride a bike and hold
a football in both hands at the same time! 
We weren’t allowed to stay indoors during the breaks,
but we had plenty of room to run around on the grass,
playing football and games like tag. The girls preferred
the tarmac in front of the school, where they could play
games or have skipping competitions. When it rained, we
stayed in the shelter shed, a large wooden building that
was open on one long side. There, we had to be content
with talking or climbing up the walls.
There was only one little cottage beside the school,
which we had to stay away from because the owner was
very proud of his beautiful garden. The rest of that side
of the playground was separated from a field by a wire
fence. I remember one morning break when a lot of us
were leaning against the fence watching as a pony gave
birth to its foal. It was an amazing experience. On the
other side of the school was a stream which became a
river when it overflowed on really rainy days. We had to
stay away from that because there was a steep drop of
several metres from the playground wall to the stream.
At the back of the school was part of the local golf
course, and less than fifteen minutes’ walk across the
golf course was the beach. Of course, on school days I
could only dream about going there.
Only once did we go to the beach during school time,
and that was because the headteacher had decided it
would make a nice change for us to get some exercise
and fresh air. The only other school trip we went on
was to a watermill beside another small river. Again, we
went on foot (it was only a couple of kilometres from the
school). We had prepared some questions to ask the
owner, and we actually had a very early form of cassette
recorder with us so that we could pretend we were
carrying out an interview like professional journalists.
Due to the fact that most of us walked to school, severe
weather conditions like snowstorms very rarely resulted
in the closure of the school. On such days, we spent as
much time as we could smoothing the snow to make
shiny slides. We knew we were doing well when the slide
became black ice. On those days, the kids who went
to the high school, which was about twenty kilometres
away, had to stay at home because the bus couldn’t
reach the village. We would often see them during the
breaks because they would come and have snowball
fights with us.