Four Properties
Villiers Terrace
Great things come in small packages! This studio flat would suit a single first-time buyer or possibly a property investor looking to build up their portfolio. Large living area with fold-down bed. A modern kitchen has recently been installed and there's gas central heating available. The bathroom has a power shower. Owning this great flat also comes with a secure space in the building's underground car park with 24-hour security. A green paradise can also be found in the form of a communal garden, including fountain and barbecue area. The building is currently pet-free. Full ownership available plus options for shared ownership for first-time buyers in their twenties. Possibility to buy adjoining roof terrace in the future. Only a short walk from excellent bus and train connections: a commuter's paradise!
Baker Street
Large Victorian house with great potential as a large home or, subject to planning permission, as a conversion into three or four apartments. The house boasts a new boiler and central heating throughout. Excellent Victorian features throughout this property, including three large original fireplaces, make this a property to aspire to. There are three large double bedrooms, each with an en suite. The twenty-five metre garden allows you to enjoy the outdoor life. The area's three most popular schools, one junior and two secondary, can all be found within a five-minute walk of this property. Book your viewing today to avoid disappointment.
Penny Lane
Your prayers have been answered! Wonderful opportunity to own this former church, now a spacious three-bedroom house. Elegant windows throughout the property allows light to flood in. Outside, enjoy the low-maintenance garden with parking for up to three cars. The house has excellent environmental credentials with underfloor heating, double glazing and solar panels installed on the roof. This property will actually save you money! There are natural wood floors throughout the property and brand new granite worktops in the American-style kitchen.
Yellow Brick Road
Two-bedroom terraced house with a deceptively large interior and a fantastic south-facing garden that makes this property a bargain. Hurry or miss it! Open plan living with a vast kitchen-dining room. Excellently located for the shops and entertainment of the town centre. You will have your own parking space right outside your front door. Good potential for an attic conversion, once the required permission has been granted. The house is situated in an excellent residential area with a large park around the corner and several local shops within a short walk. Call today and don't miss out!