Interview
I: In the studio today, we have retired judge, Jessie
Jolly, who, at the age of 70, has enrolled as a fulltime university student. It’s good to have you with us,
Jessie. Why did you decide to go back to university?
W: You might think that I’ve already been a pensioner
for a few years, but a lot of my colleagues don’t retire
until they’re 72. However, much as I enjoyed my work,
I want to experience and enjoy more in life, and being
a student is a very positive change for me
I: What can you tell us about the subjects that you’ve
chosen to study?
W: There’s almost no limit to the variety of subjects you
can do, but I’m concentrating on three. They are all
things that I’ve been interested in learning more about
for quite some time, although I’ve never studied them
properly before. The first subject is philosophy. It’ll be
interesting to find out what the world’s greatest thinkers
believe. The second is psychology. I’ve met all sorts of
people over the years, and I’m fascinated by the ways
in which different people’s minds work. My other choice
is literature. The great writers can enlighten us about the
problems and dilemmas that people face, and focus on
issues that may affect all of us in one way or another.
I: How does it feel to be the oldest student in your
classes?
W: I had some concerns about that, but I soon got
over them. For a start, there are quite a few
middle-aged students. But most importantly, I’ve
been warmly welcomed as an equal by students
of all ages, not to mention our tutors. In some
respects, they have greater expectations of me
because of my age and experience, but this only
helps me feel more welcome and appreciated.
I: And how do you find the intellectual challenges of
university?
W: Actually, I don’t think that it’s any tougher for me.
Obviously, my mind isn’t as fresh and agile as it
once was. It takes me longer to learn new facts.
However, through my work, I’ve had to develop good
reading skills that can help me pinpoint the most
important details and prioritise the points in whatever
I read. Also, I’ve certainly experienced a lot over the
years, and this has helped me to understand the
background to certain situations that may not be so
obvious to younger students. I can’t say it’s easy, but
I’m certainly interested in the challenges I face, and I
love the opportunities I have to explore different topics
through other people’s opinions.
I: What about classwork and exams?
W: Well, I get great feedback from my tutors, who go
out of their way to emphasise positive points about
my work. That doesn’t mean to say that they don’t
address my weaknesses, but they manage to help
me recognise them in such a way that it appears to
be my own discovery. As for exams, my first ones
will be in a few weeks, and although you can never
know in advance, I think that I’ll write answers that
I can be proud of.
I: Of course, social life is a very important part of
university. How do you fit in there?
W: In that regard, I’ve settled in quite nicely, thank
you. I’m an active member of the debating society,
which keeps my mind working and gives me a
clear picture of just how passionate young people
are about the difficult issues facing our world. Also,
although I can’t call myself an athlete, I’m having a wonderful time keeping fit at the T’ai Chi club. The
cookery club is a great social group for me, too. The
best chefs seem to be chemistry students.
I: And after you get your degree, what do you see
yourself doing?
W: Well, I’m in no hurry to get to graduation day. I
plan to enjoy every single moment of my journey
there. But, if everything goes according to plan, I’m
considering going for a postgraduate qualification.
Throughout my life I’ve played my part in society
and I’ve certainly benefited from it in many ways. If I
can, I’d like to make my own contribution, probably
in the field of law, by carrying out research that will
improve people’s lives in one way or another.
I: Thank you very much, Jessie, for an interesting
chat, and good luck with your studies