My experience in Ausatralia
Hello everyone. My name is Chris Graham and I spent my last
vacation working in Australia. The place I was in is a popular tourist
spot so there are lots of student jobs advertised in the newspaper
– from hotel work to being a tour guide. I saw my job, for a bus
driver, on the internet, and so I applied. I’d recommend you do
that too. The whole idea of getting to know another country really
appealed to me and I’m really pleased I had the opportunity to go.
I worked for a company which tries to help tourists understand
what life used to be like before Europeans arrived – a time
before clothes, cars and electricity. Many of the local people, the
Aborigines, work for the company. Studying tourism at university
wasn’t essential to get the job – in fact, my subject’s history.
What I did do was a short training course when I first arrived,
though, to learn about the local plants and animals.
At first, I was given a room in a hotel in town but I found that
I felt quite lonely so I moved into a caravan on the outskirts.
Lots of other staff lived on the site and I got to meet lots of the
local people there too. Everyone was really friendly and, as there
wasn’t a cinema or restaurant nearby, people frequently had a
party on Saturday night and I was always invited.
I worked six days a week, and I had to get up really early in the
morning when most people, and even the birds and animals,
are asleep. This is so the tourists can get to take photos of the
sunrise. I used to pick them up from their hotels around
5.00 a.m. and then head out of town and into the desert.
The tourists were from all over the world and often had no
experience of the heat. They knew, of course, about covering
their head and neck with a hat but often left their shoulders
uncovered, which wasn’t very sensible, especially if they hadn’t
been in the country for long and weren’t used to the sun.
After we had been into the desert, I would take the tourists to
the local cultural centre, where they had the opportunity to ask
questions. The tourists were especially keen to find out how to
distinguish the tracks of kangaroos from wallabies and wild dogs
After the morning session I usually went back home, had
a shower and a rest, then started again around two in the
afternoon. I used to take the afternoon group to a water hole,
where they were shown which plants could be eaten and which
were also used to make weapons for hunting.
At one time, there were very few tourists in the particular area
I worked in, because you needed to get a coach from the small
railway station in the nearest large town, a good 200 kilometres
away. There’s now an airport but the local government is keen to
get one built which can take more flights, especially from abroad.
I’m not sure about that, as I think it’s busy enough as it is, but it
would be good for the local economy, no doubt about it.
Anyway, I really recommend working in Australia during your
vacation. The busy tourist season in the area where I worked is
from May to October, so you need to make sure your application
is in by the January of the year you are hoping to work. You might
not hear until March as it takes a while to process the applications
and get references, but make sure you don’t leave it too late