Conversation about restaurants
MALE: You know we’ve been talking about where to celebrate
Anna’s birthday? Well, I went along to a few restaurants
yesterday and picked up their menus.
FEMALE: Oh, that was a good idea! So which ones did you get?
MALE: Well, I thought these three looked about the best –
Angelina’s, Blaine’s and The Chophouse. I think we should
think about the problem of parking when we make the
decision. Blaine’s does have some spaces set aside for
customers, but it was a nightmare trying to park outside
The Chophouse – double yellow lines everywhere.
Angelina’s is next to the public car park so that was OK.
FEMALE: Um, you’re right. Maybe we should just encourage
everyone to share cars. OK, so let’s look at the menus. I
know some of Anna’s friends don’t eat meat.
MALE: Well, I checked that they all do vegetarian dishes, but I
think Angelina’s looked the most varied. It’s certainly more
imaginative than Blaine’s and The Chophouse, and I think
that would be the place to go to if you wanted something a
bit different. I have to say though that one of my friends at
work was telling me that he had had a brilliant meal in
The Chophouse last month, huge servings, and only £10 a
head. Angelina’s has great food and is more fashionable
with prices to match, but of course, you feel fashionably
hungry when you leave.
FEMALE: I should think they’re trying hard to get back their
customers after all the problems they had last summer –
you remember that piece in the paper about it having a
dirty kitchen?
MALE: Yes, it sounded revolting, but I’m sure it’s OK now – it’s
got a new chef. Blaine’s chef was in the paper the other
day, did you see it? He was doing all the cooking for his
sister’s wedding. Anyway, we should be careful about
choosing a place because of the chef – it’ll probably be his
night off when we go and some junior will be on duty. I
hear Angelina’s chef is hardly ever there.
FEMALE: Oh, look, you can get a 10 per cent discount at Blaine’s
if there are more than 15 of you in a group, and Angelina’s
does a 10 per cent discount and free desserts for parties of
15 or more, which is even better. The Chophouse will
decorate the room for you if you tell them in advance.
MALE: Well, I prefer a discount to a few balloons, especially as
there’ll be at least 20 of us. I had a good look round when I
went for the menus, and I really liked The Chophouse. It’s
just by the river and you have a great view if you ask for a
table by the window.
FEMALE: That’s true, but what about Angelina’s? It says here we
can have drinks in the garden if the weather is fine and
then either eat inside or stay where we are.
MALE: Ugh! Think of all those insects flying around! You’d like
Blaine’s – they have a large extension built of glass and full
of plants – it’s just like being outside. It was closed when I
first went there to get the menu, so I went to The
Chophouse. All the staff were sitting around in jeans and
T-shirts but they certainly seemed to know their job. They
went out of their way to be helpful. The staff at Angelina’s
were a bit suspicious of me wanting to take a menu away.
They were all very well-dressed but I think they could do
with a few lessons in customer relations!
FEMALE: Well, which one is it going to be then? (fade)