Advices for a good interview
When the company invites you to attend an interview, it
means that the company is interested in you, because
they’ve looked at all the information you’ve given them
about yourself, and they probably think you’ve got a
number of strong points … so now it’s your turn to show
an interest in them … So, if the organisation is … say a car
manufacturer, you need to ask yourself what kind of cars it
makes, how they differ from the rest … Read the
newspapers for details about their expansion plans, new
products and developments. And keep a record of all the
important points.
Well, employers are, of course, looking for ability, for useful
skills … Think carefully of every corner of your daily life for
examples of initiative, teamwork, verbal and written
communication skills. Remember, for example, when you
organised an event at school. Employers want people who
get things done, so it’s useful to note these down and keep
them handy. What I mean is, don’t concentrate on the
things you feel you’re not so good at. If, say, your computer
skills are not top of the range, chances are the job will be
offered to you anyway, on condition that you do some
training to upgrade those skills … 
You’ll have to answer a lot of questions. Interviewers
almost always want to know why! Why you did that
course. Why you decided not to go to university next year.
What kind of leisure activities you like and why. You’ll
have no trouble answering such questions. Now, it’s
advisable to be realistic when it comes to talking about
your problem areas, maybe skills you haven’t quite mastered. Your family and friends may tell you not to
worry, but the truth is you need to be able to show what
action you are taking to reach the standard the company
requires. You need to be prepared for that.
Before you applied for this job, you probably thought
carefully what the company could offer you, and what you
could give them. Spending long hours reading all their
literature won’t help you because you may still be
unprepared for a question they’re likely to ask – what
made you choose them? It is worthwhile remembering
that, say the company is an airline, you are not applying so
as to have worldwide travel opportunities, although of
course you can express your interest in the travel industry.
You need to know what to say, so give it some thought in
advance.
When you’re asked questions, try to avoid giving one-word
answers. It’s easy to do this when you’re a bit nervous.
When asked about leisure interests, for example,
responses such as ‘reading’ or ‘sport’, tell them very little
about you, while ‘I’m a member of a rugby club’, ‘I’m a
drummer in a band’, say much more. This also shows more
enthusiasm, and the people interviewing you may
conclude that you are really very interested in getting this
job. It’s a good idea to think of what to say and practise
your answers with a friend, so you can show off all your
skills on the day.