How is to work in an art gallery?
Int: This evening in our series ‘Careers with a Difference’ our
guest is Rachel Reed who works for a small commercial art
gallery. Rachel welcome.
RR: Hello.
Int: Rachel, what exactly do you do?
RR: Well, there’s two great things about working for a really
small company. Firstly, you get to do a bit of everything.
The other is that you can practically invent your job title.
Mine is marketing manager – although I do a lot of other
things too, it does describe the majority of what I do.
Int: So, tell us about your day.
RR: Well, it all starts with the huge pile of post we get. We
often get artists sending in photographs of their work to
see if we’d be interested in exhibiting it. I learned very early
on how to differentiate between the ‘possibles’ and those
which are unsuitable.
Int: But how do you tell?
RR: It might be the style, or sometimes the subject matter is
just not going to look right in our gallery, but more often
than not, it’s just that they’re not of the required standard.
The ‘possibles’ I pass on to the gallery manager who makes
the final decision.
Int: So you have quite a lot of contact with artists?
RR: Yes. Sometimes I spend nearly all day on the phone and
about fifty percent of the time it’s artists. I send letters
explaining why we can’t show their work – some of them
phone up to argue about it – I find those calls very hard
to deal with. Artists we do exhibit also phone to find out
if we’ve managed to sell anything and, if we have, when
the money will be coming through. I don’t mind those so
much. Most other calls are from clients. We have a new
artist exhibiting here every two to four weeks and before
the show takes place, we send out a catalogue to the
clients on our database.
Int: Obviously the catalogue’s illustrated?
RR: Oh yes, and as soon as the catalogue goes out, we start
getting phone calls because people see something they like
and want to reserve it. Sometimes they even buy things
over the phone. The catalogue also contains a commentary
about the artist, which I have to write and research. I try
to find out what has influenced them, where they learned
to paint, what the subject matter represents, that sort of
thing, but I try to avoid quoting from positive reviews of
their work; it’s not meant to be advertising as such.
Int: So your job is not all administrative?
RR: Compared to a typical office, that side of it’s quite
minimal, that’s why I can cope without an assistant. There
are systems in place to deal with routine jobs. For instance,
I don’t have to send out the catalogues – the company
which prints them also prints the envelopes and posts
them. Another company takes care of the food and drinks
when we have the opening of a new exhibition.
Int: And are you involved in other aspects of the business?
RR: Yes. The company also offers a consultancy service for
large companies that want to display works of art in their
offices. I phone round companies, explain what we do
and, if they’re interested, make an appointment for the
gallery manager to go and see them. It’s interesting, the
companies tend to go much more for modern or abstract
art than people coming to the gallery.
Int: And the best part of the job for you?
RR: The really rewarding thing for me is that you never know
how a day is going to go. Some days it’ll be really quiet,
other days it’s really busy and you don’t know what you’re
going to have to cope with. And there’s the added bonus
of working with really nice people and of course I have
the pleasure of spending my days surrounded by beautiful
works of art, so I can’t complain.
Int: Thank you Rachel, and now we’ll move on to....