Walking on waves
My journey to the sea began when I was tiny.
My mum, who used to surf then, would sit me
on one of her old boards and push me into the
little waves in a few centimetres of water. We
both soon realised I had an unstoppable
appetite for the waves, something which has
never faded. Soon after that we moved to a
house which was almost on the beach. I could
literally walk out of the garden into the sea.
Living by the sea is something you never take
for granted if you surf. I open the curtains in the
morning and my heart leaps as I see the long
perfect lines of waves rolling into the bay
Being the only girl in the water when I was
learning to surf never bothered me because I’d
always been trying to keep up with an elder
brother who was exceptionally good at sports.
So there I was, a tiny little thing, itching to
better my surfing by checking out other surfers
and looking for new moves. I was surfing four
times a day in the summer holidays, before and
after school right through the winter months as
the temperatures dropped and the sea was
really wild. I just couldn’t get enough of it. 
Things started to get competitive as I got older
and stronger. I was tackling more challenging
waves: faster, more powerful and more
dangerous, but I was gaining confidence and
building up my experience, and it was really
rewarding to see myself improving. And that’s
when the boys started to notice me, and they
weren’t too sure how to cope with it. They
seemed to think along the lines of ‘She’s only a
girl – she won’t manage that wave, so I’ll get in
there and show her how to do it.’ Convincing
them that I could hold my own in the waves
wasn’t going to happen overnight. 
Over time and after a few hair-raising moments,
I made some friends and mutual respect
blossomed between me and the guys who
spent all their time in the waves with me. When
I started pulling off some good moves on my
surfboard and throwing a bit of spray on the
waves, they began giving me a bit of credit, so
that if I was going out when the surf was really
big, they would shout out instructions to make
sure I had the best chance. They knew I wasn’t
messing about and that I was going for it out
there. Things got really interesting when I went
in for competitions. In fact, I entered every
national surfing competition over ten years.
Competition surfing can be extremely
frustrating, since you can never guarantee
waves at a certain time on a certain day, and
there’s vast amounts of hanging around
Now I’ve set up a surf school and I’ve got a
whole new perspective. When you start
teaching something, you have to learn for
yourself again. Everything you’ve been doing
instinctively without really noticing for the last
fifteen years has now got to be passed on, and
it gets surprisingly detailed and tricky in parts.
But it’s been fantastic introducing so many
people to the sport, and it’s even better when
you get to see their big grins when they stand
up for the first time and ride a wave into the
shore. Surfing has taken me all over the world
and now it feels like it’s brought me home
again.